Add a news item to announce v1.11 (#171)
OpenFreeEnergy/openfreeenergy.github.io: _posts/2026-04-28-release-v1.11.md

---
layout: post

> title: "openfe v1.7.0: SepTop, ABFEs, faster simulations, and more!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "openfe v1.11.0:  Introducing support for membrane systems"
```
reword as you see fit,  but the title needs to be updated!

categories: science update
---

We are pleased to announce the release of **openfe** version 1.11.0!

This release brings along some long-awaited features, notably support for membranes! 

Please see below for some highlights and see the [Changelog][] for more details.

## New Features

### Support for Protein-Membrane Systems

> **openfe** can now perform simulations of proteins in membranes. These simulations require additional preparation: the user must supply a fully built, solvated, pre-equilibrated system, prepared with an external package. On the CLI, use the option `--protein-membrane` instead of `--protein` if you are providing this type of system, and see the new [tutorial] on RBFE Calculations of Protein-Membrane Sytems for guidance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**openfe** can now perform simulations of proteins in membranes. These simulations require additional preparation: the user must supply a fully built, solvated, pre-equilibrated system, prepared with an external package. On the CLI, use the option `--protein-membrane` instead of `--protein` if you are providing this type of system, and see the new [tutorial][] on RBFE Calculations of Protein-Membrane Sytems for guidance.
```
I _think_ you might need the `[]`?

Author: It renders fine without it but I notice the next one is broken for a different reason. The mysteries of Markdown.
<img width="1070" height="526" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/640fbaad-017d-4a00-a4e9-28be93b22db9" />

> **openfe** can now perform simulations of proteins in membranes. These simulations require additional preparation: the user must supply a fully built, solvated, pre-equilibrated system, prepared with an external package. On the CLI, use the option `--protein-membrane` instead of `--protein` if you are providing this type of system, and see the new [tutorial] on RBFE Calculations of Protein-Membrane Sytems for guidance.

Reviewer 2: Could you also work in the link to these system setup docs? https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/guide/setup/chemical_systems_and_thermodynamic_cycles.html

### Updated Default Settings for Improved Accuracy

> The default value for the Hybrid TopologyProtocol setting `turn_off_core_unique_exceptions` has been changed to `True`. This means 1-4 interactions involving the unique alchemical atoms and core regions will now be interpolated on/off accordingly by default. We have updated this default based on internal research that shows that it improves the accuracy of results in most cases. See the [Relative Hyrbid Topology Protocol Documentation][] for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, we now Lambda scale 1-4 interactions between core and dummy atoms in our [hybrid topology protocol][]. In the past, 1-4 interactions involving dummy atoms from both end states would be kept across the transformation. Our internal research shows that this modification yields a small, yet significant, improvement in the accuracy of relative binding free energy simulations.

Should you wish to toggle this feature, it can be controlled using the [HybridTopologyProtocol alchemical settings][] `turn_off_core_unique_exceptions` parameter.
```
Slight rewording to reverse when we mention the parameter.

For the alchemical settings the link (to add below) would be: https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/reference/api/openmm_rfe.html#protocol-settings

Also guggesting removing the link to the protocol docs as "for more details": Our docs don't mention 1-4 scaling at all, I'm not sure it's worth pointing folks there.

## Installing `openfe v1.11.0`

`openfe` is made available as a [conda-forge][] package, or [docker and singularity images][].

Please see our [installation instructions][] for details on how to install `openfe`.

[changelog]: https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/CHANGELOG.html
[tutorial]: https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/tutorials/rbfe_membrane_protein.html

> [Relative Hybrid Topology Protocol Documentation]: https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/guide/protocols/relativehybridtopology.html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[hybrid topology protocol]: https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/guide/protocols/relativehybridtopology.html
```

[docker and singularity images]: https://github.com/OpenFreeEnergy/openfe/pkgs/container/openfe
[conda-forge]: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/openfe

> [installation instructions]: https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/installation.html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[installation instructions]: https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/installation.html
[HybridTopologyProtocol alchemical settings]: https://docs.openfree.energy/en/latest/reference/api/openmm_rfe.html#protocol-settings
```

---
layout: post

> title: "openfe v1.11.0:  Introducing support for membrane systems"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "openfe v1.11:  Introducing support for membrane systems"
```

since i'm going to release a patch v1.11.1 - let's just say v1.11

categories: science update
---

> We are pleased to announce the release of **openfe** version 1.11.0!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are pleased to announce the release of **openfe** version 1.11!
```

This release brings along some long-awaited features, notably support for membranes! 

Please see below for some highlights and see the [Changelog][] for more details.

## New Features

### Support for Protein-Membrane Systems

**openfe** can now perform simulations of proteins in membranes. These simulations require additional preparation: the user must supply a fully built, solvated, pre-equilibrated system, prepared with an external package. On the CLI, use the option `--protein-membrane` instead of `--protein` if you are providing this type of system, and see the new [tutorial] on RBFE Calculations of Protein-Membrane Sytems for guidance.

### Updated Default Settings for Improved Accuracy

> By default, we now Lambda scale 1-4 interactions between core and dummy atoms in our [hybrid topology protocol][]. In the past, 1-4 interactions involving dummy atoms from both end states would be kept across the transformation. Our internal research shows that this modification yields a small, yet significant, improvement in the accuracy of relative binding free energy simulations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, we now Lambda scale 1-4 interactions between core and dummy (i.e. unique in either end state) atoms in our [hybrid topology protocol][]. In the past, such 1-4 interactions would be kept across the transformation. Our internal research shows that this modification yields a small, yet significant, improvement in the accuracy of relative binding free energy simulations.
```
I realised "both end states" sounds like "one in one end state and one in the other", which is not what I meant with that wording. 

Slight rewording, hopefully that's somewhat better.

Should you wish to toggle this feature, it can be controlled using the [HybridTopologyProtocol alchemical settings][] `turn_off_core_unique_exceptions` parameter.

> ## Installing `openfe v1.11.0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing `openfe v1.11`
```
